> This chapter is about:
>
> * Before I read it
>   
>   A very basic introduction to non-function pointer fields of the `struct IndexAmRoutine`
>
> * After I read it
>   * ...

> What do you expect to learn from it (fill in this before reading it)
>
> * If you are new to it, ...
>
>   * The meaning of the fields and fuctions defined in `struct IndexAmRoutine`
>   * Perhaps something to note when writing your custom index AM?
>
> * If you already knew something about it, ... 
>   > tip: think more and read less in this case

> What have you learned from it
>
> *
> *

1. Every access method (regardless of its type) has an entry in system 
   catalog `pg_am`:
   
   ```sql
   steve=# select * from pg_am;
    oid  | amname |      amhandler       | amtype
   ------+--------+----------------------+--------
       2 | heap   | heap_tableam_handler | t
     403 | btree  | bthandler            | i
     405 | hash   | hashhandler          | i
     783 | gist   | gisthandler          | i
    2742 | gin    | ginhandler           | i
    4000 | spgist | spghandler           | i
    3580 | brin   | brinhandler          | i
   (7 rows)
   ```
   
   An entry contains:
   
   * name: the name of the AM
   * handler: a function that returns the defined  `struct IndexAmRoutine`. 
     It will takes a dummy argument of type `internal` to prevent it from 
     being accidentially called in normal SQL(this function can be accessed in
     SQL `CREATE FUNCTION`). The returned struct has to be `palloc()`'d:
     
     In Rust, it will be typically like:
     
     > QUES: No idea why pg_search `CREATE FUNCTION` again in the `sql = ` because
     > I thought `#[pg_extern()]` would alredy do that for you.
     
     ```rust
     #[pg_extern(sql = "
     CREATE FUNCTION bm25_handler(internal) RETURNS index_am_handler PARALLEL SAFE IMMUTABLE STRICT COST 0.0001 LANGUAGE c AS 'MODULE_PATHNAME', '@FUNCTION_NAME@';
     CREATE ACCESS METHOD bm25 TYPE INDEX HANDLER bm25_handler;
     COMMENT ON ACCESS METHOD bm25 IS 'bm25 index access method';
     ")]
     fn bm25_handler(_fcinfo: pg_sys::FunctionCallInfo) -> PgBox<pg_sys::IndexAmRoutine> 
     ```
     
   * type: it is a table or an index
   
2. The non-pointer type fields of `struct IndexAmRoutine`

   * `NodeTag type`: has to be `NodeTag::T_IndexAmRoutine`
   
     > QUES: Emm, interesting, if the value is fixed, then why do we need to 
     > specify it.
     >
     > Possible answer, I guess `IndexAmRoutine` will be type-erased.
     
   * `uint16 amstrategies`: Total number of strategies (operators) by which we
     can traverse/search this AM. Zero if AM does not have a fixed set of strategies 
     assignments.
     
     > QUES: If I have mutliple OPERATOR CLASSes specified for this index am, 
     > then the value set in this field should be their operators' sum, right?
     
   * `uint16 amsupport`: total number of support functios that this AM uses. 
   
   * `uint16 amoptsprocnum`: opclass options support function number or 0.
   
     > QUES: what is this?
     
   * `bool amcanorder`: does AM support `ORDER BY` indexed column's value? 
   
     > QUES: what is this?
     
   * `bool amcanorderbyop`: does AM support `ORDER BY` result of an operator on
     indexed column. 
     
     > QUES: what is this and what's the difference between this and `amcanorder`?
     
   * `bool amcanbackward`: does AM support backward scanning?
   
   * `bool amcanunique`: does AM support `UNIQUE` indexes
   
      > QUES: what is this?
      >
      > I thought this sign indicates if this index can be used to deduplicate
      > data, then hash index can definitely be used for that, I checked hash
      > index's source code, but [this field is set to `false`][hash_canunique]
      >
      > [hash_canunique]: https://github.com/postgres/postgres/blob/2453196107de66cff0257feef2ff8585dcf9d924/src/backend/access/hash/hash.c#L67
      
      > This field will be mostly talked about in section [62.5](./62.5_Index_Uniqueness_Checks.md)
      
   * `bool amcanmulticol`: does AM support multi-column indexes
     
     If this is set to true, then the AM must support scans that omit restrictions
     on any or all of the columns after the first.
     
     A related restriction is that an index access method that supports multiple 
     index columns must support indexing null values in columns after the first, 
     because the planner will assume the index can be used for queries that do 
     not restrict these columns. 
   
   * `bool amoptionalkey`: If true (`key` is `optional`), then this AM allows 
     index scans to have no constrint over the first index column.
     
     > The code comment "does AM require scans to have a constraint on the first 
     > index column?"
     
     > QUES(Solved): what is this?
     >
     > What does "constraint" mean here? "fist index column", so this is field
     > only makes sense if your index support multi-column scan?
     >
     > Answer: 
     > 
     > 1. constraint means condition in the `WHERE` clause
     > 2. If the index can only be used with 1 column, this field still makes
     >    sense, the first column will be just that column.
     >    when `amcanmulticol` is `false`, then this field literally means that
     >    whether this index supports full-index scan without any restriction
     >    clause.
     
     > For all the built-in index types supported by Postgres, hash index is the 
     > only one that sets this to `false`.
     
     QUES: understand this: 
     This pg doc says: One reason that an index AM might set `amoptionalkey` false 
     is if it doesn't index null values. Since most indexable operators are strict
     and hence cannot return true for null inputs, it is at first sight attractive 
     to not store index entries for null values: they could never be returned by 
     an index scan anyway. However, this argument fails when an index scan has 
     no restriction clause for a given index column. In practice this means that 
     indexes that have amoptionalkey true must index nulls, since the planner might 
     decide to use such an index with no scan keys at all. 
     
   * `bool amsearcharray`: does AM handle `ScalarArrayOpExpr` quals?
   
     > `ScalarArrayOpExpr` refers to expressions like:
     >
     > 1. `item in array[]`
     > 2. `item = ANY(ARRAY[])`
     >
     > It is literally "searching" the `array` for `item`, so this field is called
     > `searcharray`.
     
     > `qual` means qualification
     
   * `bool amsearchnulls`: does AM handle `IS NULL/IS NOT NULL` quals  
   
     > Can this index be used for queries like "SELECT * FROM foo WHERE col IS NULL".
     
   * `bool amstorage`: can indx storage data type differs from column data type
   
     > QUES: I don't quite understand this, but the `GIN` index has it set to true 
     
   * `bool amclusterable`: can an index of this type be clustered on
   
     > Postgres's [`CLUSTER`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-cluster.html)
     > command sorts the table based on the order of an index, though it won't maintain
     > the state for you.
     
     > QUES:
     >
     > 1. If the index is an ordered index, then this field can be set to true?
     > 2. I think this is also related to the Table AM used by the table, what if
     >    it is a columnar format.
     
    * `bool ampredlocks`: does AM handle predicate locks?
    
      > From AI:
      >
      > This field indicates whether the access method supports "predicate locks". 
      > Predicate locks are a mechanism used in PostgreSQL to implement 
      > Serializable Isolation Level.
      >
      > Predicate locks are different from traditional row-level locks. Instead 
      > of locking specific rows, they lock the conditions (predicates) used to 
      > access data. This allows PostgreSQL to detect and prevent phantoms and 
      > write skew anomalies in serializable transactions.
      >
      > For example, if a transaction runs a query like "SELECT * FROM table 
      > WHERE x > 10", a predicate lock would be placed on the condition "x > 10". 
      > This prevents other transactions from inserting, updating, or deleting 
      > any rows that would satisfy this condition until the first transaction 
      > completes.
      >
      > Access methods that support predicate locks can provide more fine-grained 
      > concurrency control in serializable transactions, potentially improving 
      > performance in highly concurrent environments.
      
    * `bool amcanparallel`: does AM support parallel scan?
    
      > QUES: I think I understand the meaning of this field, but I don't understand
      > how parallel scan works in Postgres.
      
    * `bool amcanbuildparallel`: does AM support parallel build
    
      > QUES: I think I understand the meaning of this field, but I don't understand
      > how parallel index build works in Postgres.
      
    * `bool amcaninclude`: does AM support columns included with clause `INCLUDE`?  
    
      Can this index AM store additional columns beyond the index columns. These
      columns are called include columns, they are index columns, `amcanmulticol`
      and `amoptionalkey` do not apply to them.
    
      > QUES: have no idea what `INCLUDE` clause is
      >
      > [inlcude columns in btree indexes](https://use-the-index-luke.com/blog/2019-04/include-columns-in-btree-indexes)
      
    * `bool amusemaintenanceworkmem`: does AM use `maintenance_work_mem`
    
      > What is `maintenance_work_mem`: memory to be used by maintenance operations,
      > such as `VACUUM`, `CREATE INDEX`, and `ALTER TABLE ADD FOREIGN KEY`.
     
    * `bool amsummarizing`: does AM summarize tuples, with at least all tuples 
      in the block summarized in one summary
      
      > QUES: no idea what "summary" means here
      
    * `uint8 amparallelvacuumoptions`: a bitflag, OR of parallel vacuum flags.
    
      > flags for parallel vacuum are defined in:
      >
      > https://github.com/postgres/postgres/blob/d5ca15ee54bf7faf038a38408e8adec971740966/src/include/commands/vacuum.h#L29-L69
    
    * `Oid amkeytype`: type of data stored in index, or InvalidOid if variable.
    
      > QUES: if `amstorage` is false, then I guess this field has to be the 
      > column type's Oid.

3. When you define an index, it has an entry in `pg_class`, plus a `pg_index`
   entry.
   
4. The indexed columns can be

   * simple columns of of the underlying table
   * expressions over the table row (or column?)
   
5. All the support functions of `IndexAmRoutine` has an argument of type 
   `Relation`, which has access to this index instance's `pg_index` entry
   
   ```c
   /* These are non-NULL only for an index relation: */
	 Form_pg_index rd_index;		/* pg_index tuple describing this index */
	 /* use "struct" here to avoid needing to include htup.h: */
	 struct HeapTupleData *rd_indextuple;	/* all of pg_index tuple */
   ```
   
6. 