> * 36.17.1. Extension Files
> * 36.17.2. Extension Relocatability  
> * 36.17.3. Extension Configuration Tables  
> * 36.17.4. Extension Updates  
> * 36.17.5. Installing Extensions Using Update Scripts  
> * 36.17.6. Security Considerations for Extensions  
> * 36.17.7. Extension Example  

1. To define an extension, you need at least:

   1. a script file that contains the SQL commands to create the extension's objects

      > For example, an extension can:
      >
      > * `CREATE TYPE`
      > * `CREATE FUNCTION`
      >
      > You cannot `DROP` these individual objects unless you `DROP` the whole 
      > extension.
      >
      > System catalog table `pg_depend` describes this dependency graph.
     
   2. a control file that specifies a few basic properties of the extension itself 
   3. If the extension includes C code, there will typically also be a shared library 
      file into which the C code has been built. Once you have these files, a simple 
      `CREATE EXTENSION` command loads the objects into your database.

2. `CREATE EXTENSION` creates/installs the extension to the database you connect
   to. It WON'T exist if you switch to other databases.

   > Well, technically, you cannot switch databases in Postgres unless you 
   > reconnect and start a new Postgres backend process.

   And, due to this, the objects that you can create in an extension cannot be
   database-cluster-wide (such as databases, roles, and tablespaces)

   System catalog table `pg_extension` (every database has such a table) tracks
   the extensions installed for this database.


# 36.17.1. Extension Files

> Installed extensions will be put in `$(pgconfig --sharedir)/extension`

A Postgres extension contains following files:

* The primary control file

  The primary control file should be named in `<extension name>.control`

  It should be put in `$(pgconfig --sharedir)/extension`

  Control file should only contain plain ASCII characters, because Postgres won't
  know the encoding until it reads the `encoding` field of the control file.

* At least one SQL script

  Naming pattern `<extension name>--<version>.sql`

  By default, SQL files should be put in `$(pgconfig --sharedir)/extension` as 
  well, but you can specify their locations in the control file:

  ```text
  # .control file
  directory = "<path>"
  ```

  `<path>` can be absolute or relative (relative to `$(pgconfig --sharedir)`)

  The default behavior is same as:

  ```text
  directory = "extension" # CONDIGDIR/extension
  ```

  SQL scripts can contain any SQL commands except for the txn control commands
  `BEGIN/COMMIT/ABORT/SAVEPOINT/ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT/RELEASE SAVEPOINT` for 
  the reason that they will be implicitly executed within a txn.

  SQL scripts can contains `\echo` command (`psql` command), which will be 
  ignored by the extension mechanism. It only works when you directly source
  the SQL file in `psql`, you can warn the users to not do this in this way:

  ```sql
  -- complain if script is sourced in `psql`, rather than via CREATE EXTENSION
  \echo Use "CREATE EXTENSION pair" to load this file. \quit
  ```

* Secondary control file**s**

  Naming pattern: `<extension>--<version>.control`

  It should be put in the same directory as the SQL scripts. It follows the same 
  format as the primary control file. Any parameters set in a secondary control 
  file override the primary control file when installing or updating to that 
  version of the extension. However, the parameters `directory` and `default_version`
  cannot be set in a secondary control file.

   